# Diplomacy

A work in-progress ambitious modern day Hearts of Iron IV mod

## Premise

  The year is 2025, the Israeli-Hamas and Russo-Ukraine have still been ongoing for 2 and 3 years respectively as an ongoing shift in ideology and rise in world tensions begin to occur. In the Americas, Donald J. Trump has once again been elected the president of the U.S. with Republican control in the legislative branch. The head of state has gone around creating sparks with threats of annexing Canada and the Panama Canal, buying Greenland, abandonment of NATO, decreased support of Ukraine and the ongoing trade war. Through the guise of the media, the populous of America is more divided than ever, splitting between the Democrats and the Republican parties, where any decision made by one can easly anger the other... The ongoing coup in Venezuela, who holds a large oil reserve and territorial ambitions, is willing to side against the U.S. for their own gain. This includes other countries such as Brazil, and Panama, who has been gaining increased investments from China. With the melting of much of the Earth's ice, opening up the Northwest Passage inbetween Canada and Greenland, have granted both a strategic position. This leaves Greenland in a place of contention. With U.S. pressure, Denmark's control and the prospect of potential resources, the great powers of the world hope to spread some "freedom" 
  
  In Europe, Russia maintains control of both Crimea and the eastern half of Ukraine, with a possible peace being brokered by the U.S., the end of the bloodshed is in view... It isn't all sunshine, as a Russian-aligned breakaway region in the south of Ukraine has been increasingly making waves if peace can be made. Pressure from the U.S. and threats of possible Russian expansion has led some countries to increase their military funding and overall readyness. Countries such as Germany face a wave of right-wing ideology and extreme left-wing ideology which could change the direction of a country, or the whole continent. CSTO-affiliated Serbia is still at odds with the partially recongized Kosovo, who wishes to seperation with their slavic brethren. Because of the Ukranian war, some have speculated that the "democratic" Russia under Putin will aim to reclaim the former empire's land.

  The Middle East, what used to be the cradle of civilation, has turned into a hellscape in the post imperial world. Turkey, the connecting bridge between Europe and Asia, and the entrance to the Black Sea, is still at odds with the controlled Kurdish region. Despite it's NATO membership, Turkey continues to recieve support from Russia putting it's true alligence into question. Armenia and Azerbaijian are still at it about their borders (per usual) and Russia continues to "support" the region of "Abkhazia" as they have since 2008. Syria is recovering from a decade long civil war while Iraq, Lebanon, and Israel fight against Iranian backed terrorist groups. In the midst of the October 7th invasion, Israel has fought back against the Iranian-Funded Hamas and has occupied the region of Gaza and continues to strike at it's infrastructure through failed treaty agreements and a world-wide dispute about the ethics of what the Zionist government orders (or doesn't) their troops. Israel has also occupied the Syrian Golan Heights for "security" and the independent West Bank as the situation worsens for the Palestinians. As a result of Israeli actions in Gaza, the support of both Neo-Nazism and Anti-Semetitism have grown worldwide. Both authortarian Saudi Arabia and Qatar have agreed to mutual support with the U.S. attempting to bolster one anothers economies and militaries as their strategic position in the region grows. Iran, the sworn enemies of Israel have _allegedly_ been pursuing nuclear weaponry, should their distain grow enough or if either decides to strike the other, well...

  One of the most complex regions in the world, Asia, is home to several superpowers. India, an emerging nuclear and superpower has fought against Pakistani claims against Kashmir, even with the esclatiion of the tensions between the two resulting in a short bout of combat. India, despite being democratic, has no real allegience to the pillars of liberty, and can end up on whichever side of the coin they please. Pakistan on the other hand, an underdeveloped nuclear power, holds ties to the Islamic and authortarian world. No ties, nothing to lose, but everything to gain. "Communist" China maintains control over its autonomous regions even through the protests of Hong Kong and the Xinjiang region, featuring "re-education" camps. Finishing it's 3 bajillion percent tarrif war with the U.S, China still remains the worlds largest exporter and owner of essential resources for microchips. The new oil of the modernized world. However, Taiwan holds just as much. Taiwan, formerly the Republic of China, is free, independent, but sought after. Holding a defence pact with the U.S to deter the Communists, it's only a matter of time before they strike... or not. Both China's seek the land of the other, creating the one TRUE China. Korea is still split into two opposing countries, each ready to pull the trigger at a moments notice. You can't forget about the resource-laiden Indonesia, who has heavy economonic ties to the opposing powers that be. The wildfire of Asia is itching to break out.

  Post-colonial Africa, littered with terrorism, civil war, dictators and poverty. Best of all, nearly every country isn't aligned. The the ones that are, Ethiopia, South Africa and Egypt, like Indonesia, are shifitng further away from the side of democracy and freedom. Egypt with its canal, and both Somalia and and Dijibouti have extremely stragetic positioning in the entrance to the Red Sea. Somalia, littered with terrorism and breakaway regions, can provide much needed footholds where needed. To put it shorly, Africa is the modern day Balkans.

  And of course, Antarctica. I mean who'd fight over that, right?
